One thing that's going to be a
big issue in mind and reality.
Is the notion of a mental state.
Not surprising, the course is
about the mind. Mental states,
key components of the mind.
Sort of mental states well.
If I say to you, Ian believes
Clark is in the library. I'm
talking about a mental state
that Ian has in this case of
belief. Or you might say Steve
desires that Clark fly, and
again, you're talking about some
kind of mental state that I
have. Or, you know, we could
say Aisha intends that
Superman fly once again. That
intention is a mental state.
Now for all purposes, it's
helpful to think about mental
states as having three key
components. They have a
subject and attitude and a
content. Let's take a quick
look at each of those so the
subject is the individual
thing which bears the mental
state.
Questions about the subject of
mental states are going to come
up twice. They're going to come
up once if you think about
personal identity, the identity
of the bearer of mental States
and they might also come up
again if you ask the question of
whether the subject of mental
states always have to be
individuals, or whether there's
any interesting and useful sense
in which multiple individuals
can be said collectively to have
a mental state like a desire or
intention. Sorry if I say to
you. We desire.
To eat dinner I'm I'm talking
about a mental state.
That we collectively have one
state, many people. Or am I
simply summarizing a situation
in which each of us desires
that we have dinner? OK
anyway, subject of the mental
state? That's the individual
thing, or set of things that
bears the mental state.
The attitude is something like
believing, desiring or
intending. Attitudes are
typically characterized by their
functional and normative roles.
So, for example, someone might
say look the functional role of
beliefs, put it very simply, is
to ensure that an agent's
actions align with some facts,
even when information about
those facts is no longer
available. So here's the great
thing about belief.
I'm over here and I encounter
some information about where
this delicious food is. Now I
have to go away to another
place I no longer have the
information about the foods
location, but if I get hungry I
can still return to that place
and I hope that's food there.
That's the function of belief.
It's allowing me to align my
actions with the fact even
though I have no current
information about those facts
at all.
So this is a very simple
example of how we might try
very crudely to characterize
functional roles of
different attitudes and
distinguish them. That's a
big topic in philosophy, but
it's not something that
we're going to consider in
this course at all.
Now the third component of a
mental state is the content.
So I might believe that Clark is
in the library. Where is you
believe that Clark is in the
kitchen? So those two mental
states are distinguished by
having different contents, same
attitude, belief, but different
contents. The idea here is that
the content is what makes a
belief true or false. What
determines the conditions under
which a desire will be satisfied
or unsatisfied, an intention,
fulfilled and unfulfilled, and
so on. One of the big topics for
this course will be about the
nature of the contents of mental
states. That's the topic called
sense and reference.